.\" makesbld.conf reference man page
.hlm 0
.TH makesbld.conf 5 4/2018 "Linux" "makesbld.conf Reference"

.SH NAME
makesbld.conf \- Constant variables for makesbld

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B makesbld.conf
file contains variables used by makesbld. These constants control
program execution. They may be unset/reset within individual
SlackBuild files and in the ~/.makesbld/user.cfg file.
.B makesbld.conf
is sourced into each \.SlackBuild file.
.HP
.PD 0
.B MYIN=${MYIN:-}
# set to your initials that will append to package files
.HP
.BR CWD =`pwd`
.HP
.BR TMP ="${TMP:-/tmp}"
# set to base build directory
.HP
.BR PKG_DIR =${PKG_DIR:-$CWD}
# set to location to install package file
.HP
.BR PKG_EXT =txz
.HP
.BR NICENESS =19
.HP
.B NICE 
="/usr/bin/nice -n $NICENESS"
.HP
.BR ARCH ="${ARCH:-i486}"
.HP 
.BR MAKEOPTS =-j8
.HP
.B CFLAGS 
= #set according to $ARCH
.HP
.B LIBDIRSUFFIX 
= #set according to $ARCH
.HP
.B CONFIGURE_DEFAULTS 
="--prefix=/usr \\
.IP 
--sysconfdir=/etc \\
.IP 
--localstatedir=/var \\
.IP 
--libdir=/usr/lib${LIBDIRSUFFIX} \\
.IP 
--build=$ARCH-slackware-linux \\
.IP 
--host=$ARCH-slackware-linux\\" 
.HP
.BR CXXFLAGS ="$CFLAGS"
.HP
.B 
CC 
=`which gcc`
.HP
.B CPP 
="$CC -E"
.HP
.B CXX 
=`which g++`
.HP
.B CXXCPP 
="$CXX -E" 
.HP
.BR SCRIPTFILE "=/usr/lib/makesbld/makesbld.inc"
.HP
.B WGET 
="$(which wget)"
.P
.B WGET_OPTIONS 
="-c -t 5"
.P
.B CVS 
="$(which cvs)"
.P
.B CVS_OPTIONS 
="-z3 -f"
.P
.B SVN 
="$(which svn)"
.P
.B SVN_OPTIONS 
="co"
.P
.B GIT 
="$(which git)"
.P
.B GIT_OPTIONS 
="clone".P
.B PC 
="$(which pkg-config)"
.P
.B PC_OPTIONS 
="--exists --print-errors"
.HP
.B DOCFILES
="ABOUT ABOUT-NLS ANNOUNCE AUTHORS CONFIGURATION CHANGES \
COPYING COPYRIGHT CREDITS ChangeLog Changelog CHANGELOG CONTRIBUTORS \
*FAQ* FEATURES FILES HACKING History HISTORY INSTALL* LICENSE LSM \
MANIFEST NEWS *README* *Readme* SITES *RELEASE* RELNOTES THANKS TIPS \
TODO VERSION CONFIGURATION* GPL License Doc doc Docs* docs* Roadmap \
ROADMAP *BUGS* index.ht* *INDEX* Changes"
.PD 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makesbld (1), makesbld.inc (5)

.SH BUGS
Let me know!

.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Jim Simmons at http://www.linuxpackages.net, whose original
.B slackbuilds
package got me started on this project.
.P
Lasse Collin from http://www.tukaani.org for help and
necessary corrections to several of the functions in this
file. The Tukanni project offers its own build scripting
system, called
.BR tukbuild .
.P
Gentoo Linux at http://www.gentoo.org, whose ebuild system
is the gold standard for package management, creation, and
distribution. The
.B do...
functions are shamelessly mimmicked from Gentoo.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Hyman <pete@peterhyman.com>
