.\" makesbld function reference man page
.TH makesbld.inc 5 1/2007 "Linux" "makesbld Function Reference"

.SH NAME
makesbld.inc \- Reusable Functions for makesbld

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B source /usr/lib/makesble/makesbld.inc
.P
.B makesbld.inc
is sourced as part of
.I /etc/makesbld/makesbld.conf
file which is sourced in each SlackBuild.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B makesbld.inc
file contains functions that are used as part of the makesbld
package. These are intended to be static, reusable code which
will save the user time when developing SlackBuild options.
.P
The Following function are general in nature and unclassified:
.HP
.B bin_perms
\- change perms of executables to 0755. This function will
look in all bin or sbin directories.
.HP
.B cleanup
\- remove $SRC and $PKG directories. This function may be called
on the command line as in
.BI name.SlackBuild\  cleanup
, or the function can be called within a SlackBuild file.
.HP
.B create_docs
\- create most document files and place them in the default
document directory.
.HP
.B die
.RI [ errormessage ]
\- abort on error function. Pass
.I errormessage
to the
.B die
function and it will exit with error code 1.
.HP
.B etc2new
\- rename all files that are in /etc in the build tree to
.RI filename .new
, so they will not overwrite any configuration files that
may be install in
.B /etc
on the target system.
.HP
.B fix_source
\- this function will change ownership to root:root and
apply either 0755 or 0644 perms to all files in the Source
file tree prior to compilation.
.HP
.BI getargs\  process
\- getargs is called from each SlackBuild and is used for running
only parts of a build. The
.I processes
that can be called are:
.IR setup ,\  fetch ,\  unpack ,\  fix[_source] ,\ 
.IR patch ,\  compile ,\  install ,\  desc[ription] ,
.IR doinst ,\  build ,\  cleanup ,\  \--help ,
.IR \-h ,\  \-help .
.B getargs
accepts only one argument and exits. If an invalid argument is passed
a usage screen is shown and the program exits.
.HP
.B pkgsetup
\- this function is called in each SlackBuild to set up the
Source and Package directories that will be used throughout
the process.
.HP
.BI spatch\  file(s)
\- spatch will patch files in the source tree with the file(s)
listed. The file can be plain, gzipped or bzipped. If there is
an error, the program will abort.
.HP
.BI unpack\  tarball
\- unpacks any type of tarball and extracts files to the source
tree.
.HP
.B usage
\- shows usage options.

.P
The
.B do...
functions place files or directories containing files
into the build location specified in the SlackBuild file.
Calling a
.B do...
function with an absolute path will be placed into
.B $PKG/path
where
.B $PKG
is the build location.
.HP
.B dobin
.RI [ SYS ]
.I file(s)
\- place a file or files in /usr/bin or /bin (with SYS parameter).
.HP
.B dodoc
.I files
or
.I directories
\- place files or directories into /usr/doc/program-version
manually.
.HP
.B doetc
.I file(s)
\- place files into /etc
.HP
.B doexe
.I dir file(s)
\- place files into directory specified and mark executable (0755).
.HP
.B doicon
.I file(s)
\- place an icon file or files into /usr/share/pixmaps
.HP
.B doins
.I dir file(s)
\- place a file wherever you say to. This function is called by
all the other
.B do...
functions for file placement.
.HP
.B doman
.I file(s)
\- place man page files into /usr/man/man? automatically. No
man prefix is required.
.HP
.B domenu
.I file(s)
\- place a desktop file or files into /usr/share/applications.
.HP
.B dorc
.RI [ NOEXE ]
.I files(s)
\- place files into /etc/rc.d. If NOEXE is passed as the first
parameter, the files will NOT be marked executable (0755). They
will be marked (0644).
.HP 
.B doshare
.IR file(s) | dir
\- place files or directories into /usr/share/program directory.
.HP
.B dosbin
.RI [ SYS ]
.I file(s)
\- place a file or files /usr/sbin or /sbin (with SYS parameter).

.P
The
.B fetch
functions retrieve source files from a http or ftp location
as well as from cvs or svn.
.HP
.B fetch
\- fetch a tarball.
The
.B fetch
function requires the following variables to be set on entry.
From
.IR makesbld.conf ,
.BR WGET\  and\  WGET_OPTIONS
must contain the location for the wget program and
WGET_OPTIONS must contain any options that are fixed
for wget.
.BR SRC_LOC\  and\  TAR_NAME
must be defined in the
.I program.SlackBuild
file and contain the http or ftp location of the
file
.BR TAR_NAME .
.HP
.B fetch-cvs
\- fetch source from cvs.
The
.B fetch-cvs
function requires the following variables to be set on entry.
From
.IR makesbld.conf ,
.BR CVS\  and\  CVS_OPTIONS
must contain the location for the cvs program and
CVS_OPTIONS must contain any options that are fixed
for cvs.
.BR CVS_PSERVER\  and\  CVS_MODULE
must be defined in the
.I program.SlackBuild
file and contain the cvs server location and the
name and directory of the module to fetch.
.HP
.B fetch-svn
\- fetch source from svn.
The
.B fetch-svn
function requires the following variables to be set on entry.
From
.IR makesbld.conf ,
.BR SVN\  and\  SVN_OPTIONS
must contain the location for the svn program and
SVN_OPTIONS must contain any options that are fixed
for svn.
.BR SVN_SERVER\  and\  SVN_MODULE
must be defined in the
.I program.SlackBuild
file and contain the svn server location and the
name and directory of the module to fetch.

.P
The zip and strip functions (to be completed)
.HP
gzip_man_info() - gzip man and info pages
.HP
gzip_docs() [NOR] - gzip documents. NOR=norecurse dir
.HP
gzip_info() - gzip info files
.HP
gzip_man() - gzip man files
.HP
gzip_misc() dir [NOR] - gzip files wherever you say to. NOR=norecurse dir
gzipped, or bzipped.
.HP
strip_all() - calls strip bin|lib|static
.HP
strip_bin() - strip bin files in $PKG
.HP
strip_lib() - strip library files in $PKG
.HP
strip_static() - strip static files in $PKG

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makesbld (1)

.SH BUGS
Let me know!

.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Jim Simmons at http://www.linuxpackages.net, whose original
.B slackbuilds
package got me started on this project.
.P
Lasse Collin from http://www.tukaani.org for help and
necessary corrections to several of the functions in this
file. The Tukanni project offers its own build scripting
system, called
.BR tukbuild .
.P
Gentoo Linux at http://www.gentoo.org, whose ebuild system
is the gold standard for package management, creation, and
distribution. The
.B do...
functions are shamelessly mimmicked from Gentoo.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Hyman <pete@peterhyman.com>
