.\" makesbld.sh man page
.TH makesbld 1 12/2006 "Linux" "Make SlackBuild Scipt"

.SH NAME
makesbld.sh, makesbld-d.sh \- Interactive SlackBuild Script Generator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makesbld.sh 
.RI [ cvs | svn | perl ]
.br
.B makesbld-d.sh
.RI [ cvs | svn | perl ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B makesbld.sh
and
.B makesbld-dd.sh
programs allow for the interactive creation
of SlackBuild files. The
.B makesbld.sh
program prompts the user, in sequence, for PROGRAM NAME,
VERSION, DESCRIPTION, Build REVISION, MIRROR location,
TARNAME, Program REQUIREMENTS, NOTES, and
Build CREATOR. The
.B makesbld-d.sh
program creates an ncurses data entry form which the user
can edit in any sequence.
.P
If the
.I cvs
optional parameter is used, the programs will
prompt for CVS PSERVER location and CVS MODULE
name instead of MIRROR and TARNAME and insert the
necessary code to fetch the cvs source
instead of a tarball.
.P
If the
.I svn
optional parameter is used, the programs will
prompt for SVN SERVER location and SVN MODULE
name instead of MIRROR and TARNAME and insert the
necessary code to fetch the svn source
instead of a tarball.
.P
If the
.I perl
optional parameter is used, the programs will
insert the proper build instructions into the
SlackBuild file for perl programs as well as
include a section for the doinst.sh file that
will insert the proper pod description.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The programs return no usable value, but can be
aborted. If the programs are aborted no files or
directories are created.
.P
If the programs are completed, a SlackBuild
file will be created under the directory
specified in the $SBDIR variable defined in 
.I $HOME/.makesbld/user.cfg
or /tmp/makesbld by default. The actual
SlackBuild location will be
.I $SBDIR/$NAME/$VERSION/$NAME.SlackBuild
where $NAME and $VERSION are defined in the programs.

.SH OPTIONS
The
.I $HOME/.makesbld/user.cfg
file may contain two variable assignments.
.IP
.BI SBDIR= path
.br
.BI CREATOR= SlackBuild
.I creator name
.P
In addition, the file
.I /etc/makesbld/makesbld.conf
needs to be reviewed and edited, primarily for the
.B MYIN
variable which contains the builder's initials to
be appended to all package tgz files.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.HP
.I /etc/makesbld/makesbld.conf
- contains global configuration settings.
.HP
.I /etc/makesbld/mirrors.conf
- contains download locations set to variables.
.HP
.I /usr/share/makesbld/*.skel
- default .skel files (standard, cvs, svn, perl) for
creation of SlackBuilds.
.HP
.I /usr/lib/makesbld/makesbld.inc
- contains reusable functions.
.HP
.I $HOME/.makesbld/user.cfg
- contains user configuration settings and
(optionally) modified .skel files that will
be used to create SlackBuild files.
.PD

.SH SECURITY
.P
.B *** WARNING ***
.IP
SlackBuild files have no sandbox protection
and must be run as root. Therefore if a
SlackBuild is modified and removes or alters
files without properly testing the results,
this could affect the host system.
.IP
If the internal variables $PKG or $SRC are
modified, it is the user's responsiblity
to set them to a safe location.
.IP
If the Makefile used when compiling a target
program with a SlackBuild does not recognize
the DESTDIR make option, the user must help
the SlackBuild to properly
install the target program otherwise
.I make install 
will write onto the system.
.P
The
.B makesbld.sh
and
.B makesbld-d.sh
programs can be run as any user and only create
the SlackBuild file and its directory. The user
running these programs needs to have write
permission to the location specified in the
.B $SBDIR
variable (see the RETURN VALUE section).

.SH NOTES
.B makesbld.sh
and
.B makesbld-d.sh
will complete the most common settings for
SlackBuilds. However, it is not recommended
to run the SlackBuild without reviewing it!
.P
SlackBuild variable names can be used as
responses to field prompts, and this can save
a lot of time.
For example, the
.B MIRROR
field can have
.B $GNOME/$NAME/$VERSION
as a location which would expand to the Gnome
source repository (from the
.I /etc/makesbld/mirrors.conf
file)and the Name and Version
subdirectory. If $VERSION has three parts,
i.e. 2.10.3, this needs to be shorted to 2.10
and the Gnome Mirror can be changed from
the above to:
.BR $GNOME/$NAME/${VERSION:0:4} .
.P
Another example is
.BR TARNAME .
This can be set as:
.B $SRC_NAME.tar.bz2
(or tar.gz, or whatever the proper extension
is). $SRC_NAME is defined as
.BR $NAME-$VERSION .
.P
Examining any of the .skel files will
show the default assignments.

.SH BUGS
Let me know!

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Hyman <pete@peterhyman.com>
